Box Model

The first important concept that you need to understand to be successful in CSS is the box model. It isn’t complicated, but skipping ove
r it now will cause you much frustration down the line.
Every single thing on a webpage is a rectangular box. These boxes can have other boxes in them and can sit alongside one another.

The only real complication here is that there are many ways to manipulate the size of these boxes, and the space between them, 
using padding, margin, and border. The assigned articles go into more depth on this concept, but to sum it up briefly:

padding increases the space between the edge of a box and the content inside of it.
margin increases the space between a box and any others that sit next to it.
border adds space (even if it’s only a pixel or two) between the margin and the padding.

Image link - https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/box-model.png

Block and inline boxes
In CSS we broadly have two types of boxes — block boxes and inline boxes. The type refers to how the box behaves in terms of page
flow and in relation to other boxes on the page. Boxes have an inner display type and an outer display type.

Outer display type
If a box has an outer display type of block, then:
The box will break onto a new line.
The width and height properties are respected.
Padding, margin and border will cause other elements to be pushed away from the box.
The box will extend in the inline direction to fill the space available in its container.
 In most cases, the box will become as wide as its container, filling up 100% of the space available.
Some HTML elements, such as <h1> and <p>, use block as their outer display type by default.

If a box has an outer display type of inline, then:
The box will not break onto a new line.
The width and height properties will not apply.
Vertical padding, margins, and borders will apply but will not cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.
Horizontal padding, margins, and borders will apply and will cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.
Some HTML elements, such as <a>, <span>, <em> and <strong> use inline as their outer display type by default.

Inner display type
Boxes also have an inner display type, which dictates how elements inside that box are laid out.
Block and inline layout is the default way things behave on the web. By default and without any other instruction,
the elements inside a box are also laid out in normal flow and behave as block or inline boxes.




